# Welcome to the Utopia Wiki

Welcome to **Utopia**, a world like no other, full of war, intrigue, strategy and diplomacy!

I see you are interested in staking your claim in the world of Utopia with a province of your own, my liege. Wonderful! However, there are a few things you should know as you begin your journey. Our advisors have put together this collection of knowledge to help you on your way to becoming a powerful ruler. We encourage all new leaders to take their time to read this wealth of information to learn the intricacies of managing a province in the world of Utopia.

**Utopia** is one of the oldest running massively multiplayer online browser games. It is a real-time strategy in virtual persistent online fantasy world with Player versus Player and Team versus Team interactions. It is free to play, no downloads are required and you don't need to be online all the time to succeed.

The Game uses a text user interface. For additional questions, join the [**Discord**](https://utopia-game.com/discord)!

*For any questions about the wiki or its contents please contact w1nd on discord!*

> Getting Started - [Getting Started with Utopia](Getting_Started_with_Utopia.md) - **Current Age:** **Age 110** *Yr 4* - [Race](../main/Race.md) - [Personality](../ages/Personality.md) - [Unique Abilities **NEW**](Unique_Abilities.md) - [Units](Units.md) - [Game Rules](Game_Rules.md) - [Genesis](../history/Genesis.md) - [**Guides of Ages Past**](http://dragonportal.125mb.com/guides/) **NEW** - [**Utopia History**](http://dragonportal.125mb.com/History.html) **NEW** - [Gold Status](Gold_Status.md)

> Guides by In-game Menus **Province Information**   - [Throne](#) ([Economy](../main/Economy.md), [Food](Food.md), [Honor](../main/Honor.md), [Networth](../main/Networth.md)) - [Kingdom](#) - [The Paper](#)   **Internal Management**   - [Explore](Explore.md) - [Growth](../guide/Growth.md) - [Science](../main/Science_Formulas.md) - [Military](../guide/Military.md) ([Units](Units.md)) - [Wizards](Wizards.md)   **External Actions**   - [Mystics](../guide/Mystics.md) ([Magic Formulas](../guide/Magic_Formulas.md)) - [Thievery](Thievery.md) ([Thievery Formulas](#)) - [War Room](../guide/War_Room.md) ([Attacking & Defending](../main/Attacking_&_Defending.md), [Hostile Meter](../main/Hostile_Meter.md), [Relations](../guide/Relations.md), [Overpopulation](../formulas/Overpopulation.md), [Multi-Attack Protection (MAP/GBP)](#) "Multi-Attack Protection (MAP)")) - [Targets](../tools/Target_Finder.md) - [Aid](#) - [Dragons](../main/Dragons.md) - [Rituals](Ritual.md) - [Stances](#)   **Communication and Intel Collection**   - [Mail](#) - [Forum](#) - [Intel-Site](MunkBot.md)   **Others**   - [Politics](#) - Rankings - [Preferences](#) - [MunkBot](MunkBot.md) - [Invitations](#) - [Reservations](Reservations.md) - [Custom Themes](http://forums.utopia-game.com/forumdisplay.php?1782-In-Game-Custom-Themes)   **External Communication**   - [Player Organization and Chat Clients](../tools/Externals.md)

> PLAYER WRITTEN GUIDES, TIPS & TRICKS - [FAQ **NEW**](#)   **Beginner Guides**   - [A Players Guide to Utopia](A_Players_Guide_to_Utopia.md) - [Beginners Guide to Choosing Race and Personalities](#) - [Recommended Defense](#) - [Quick Tips](#) - [Commonly Used Acronyms](#)   **Articles about Strategy and War**   - [Attacking & Calculating an Attack](Attacking_&_Calculating_an_Attack.md) - [How To - Ambush Guide](#) - [Chaining](Chaining.md) - **New:** [Warleader Guide to Attrition (by just me of COL) (2022)](Warleader_Guide_to_Attrition.md) - [Ethics of Waving and War (2020)](Ethics_of_Waving_and_War.md) - [Land Whoring Tips & Tricks](Land_Whoring_Tips_&_Tricks.md) - [Should my KD Predetermine a Setup?](#) - [Leadership Logic (presented by Warbirds) (2020)](Leadership_Logic.md)   **Misc Guides**   - [Time in Utopia](#) - [Dual Monarchy](Dual_Monarch.md) - [Finding Good Plunder Targets **NEW**](#) - [Time to Move On **NEW**](#)

> **The Utopian Encyclopedia** [95](#) articles to date and counting. - [About](#) - [Contribute](#) - [Contents](#) - [FAQ](#) - [Dictionary](#) - [Special Thanks](SpecialThanks.md)
